========
Overview
========

Rackspace Cloud Orchestration is the name of the Rackspace
orchestration, and application architecture management service.  Cloud
Orchestration provides a software API to create and manipulate stacks of
resources (for example load balancers, web servers, databases, and so
forth) and software that operates as part of those stacks (for example
Apache, PHP, MySQL, Wordpress, and so forth). Cloud Orchestration is an
engine that understands Cloud topologies, unlike Chef or Puppet, which
are concerned with software on servers. Where applicable, Cloud
Orchestration leverages software configuration management tools such as
Chef. Using simple template syntax, you can define a cloud stack, deploy
the stack, scale the stack (for example add/remove resources), delete
the stack, clone the stack, and more.

Systems Engineers, DevOps, and Developers who manage application
infrastructure in the cloud, want a simple way to deploy and manage the
resources of their application. Cloud Orchestration provides the ability
to declare resource provisioning and software configuration from a
template file to allow you to automate deployment of your applications
in a repeatable push-button method in order to spend less time managing
infrastructure and more time developing and operating your
application. Other solutions overly compartmentalize the work necessary
to deploy and manage an application’s cloud infrastructure.  Choosing to
use Cloud Orchestration at Rackspace provides for:

*  Portability of stacks between public and private OpenStack clouds

*  A declarative resource specification within a simple template syntax
   for better flexibility in repeated deployment of an application
   across varied environments

*  Standardized application stacks based on determined best practices by
   Rackspace and backed by expertise in Fanatical Support

Cloud Orchestration is not meant to replace software configuration tools
such as Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Salt, and so forth. Instead, the
orchestration service works with existing tools you are familiar with to
accomplish software configuration management. Rackspace Cloud
Orchestration, purposely built for any OpenStack cloud, not only eases
deployments across multiple environments, but also provides basic
configuration verification and eases application scaling. This is
possible because template authors can integrate knowledge of the design
of an application stack and the scripts that deploy and configure it.

Rackspace Cloud Orchestration Services are available to Rackspace Cloud
customers. Interactions with Rackspace Cloud Orchestration occur
programmatically via the Rackspace Cloud Orchestration API as described
in the *Cloud Orchestration Developer Guide*.

.. todo:: The following figure shows an overview of Cloud Orchestration Infrastructure:

.. todo:: a diagram is available here: https://one.rackspace.com/display/heat/Architecture+Diagram. Investigate turning it into a svg format later for use in this guide.

Intended audience
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This Reference is intended to assist support teams, DevOps Engineers,
and software developers who want to manage cloud applications with
non-trivial architectures that leverage multiple Rackspace services.

To use the information provided here, you should first have a general
understanding of the Cloud Orchestration service. You should also be
familiar with:

*  Other Rackspace services applicable to your cloud application
   architecture (Cloud Servers, Cloud Load Balancers, Cloud Databases,
   and so forth)

*  ReSTful web services

*  JSON data serialization format


Document change history
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This version of the Developer Guide replaces and obsolesces all previous versions. The most recent changes are described in the table below:


June 18, 2015
--------------

Updated parameters URI parameter for Adopt stack operation and added information
about how it is used in the example. See http://docs.rackspace.com/orchestration/api/v1/orchestration-devguide/content/POST_stack_adopt__v1__tenant_id__stacks_Stack_Operations.html.


May 21, 2015
-----------------

Added missing API examples as needed.


April 6, 2015
----------------

Added reference to list of supported resources (http://orchestration.rackspace.com/raxdox/index.html).

Additional resources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can find information for developing templates in the *Rackspace
Cloud Orchestration Template Developer Guide* at
http://docs.rackspace.com.

You can download the most current versions of templates at
https://github.com/rackspace-heat-templates.

You can find information about resources to use in your templates at
http://orchestration.rackspace.com/raxdox/index.html.

For information about Rackspace services, refer to
http://docs.rackspace.com.

Issues and bug reports can be directed to your support team via ticket,
chat, email, or phone.

Please give us your feedback at `Product Feedback
Forum <http://feedback.rackspace.com>`_.

Pricing and Service Level
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cloud Orchestration is part of the Rackspace Cloud and although you will
not be billed for using Cloud Orchestration, you will be billed for the
stack resources you create using Cloud Orchestration.

Cloud Orchestration is a Non-Standard Rackspace Service. Applicable SLAs
for the underlying infrastructure apply for successfully launched cloud
products.

The Service Level Agreement (SLA) for Cloud Orchestration is available
at http://www.rackspace.com/information/legal/cloud/sla#cloud_orchestration.